# Overview

The following describes the development process for the application, both the
mechanisms of developing code and the philosophy/intent behind the various
portions of the application.

## Development cycle

Despite the majority of the application being a web server and a large quantity
of HTML/CSS/Javascript, it is not possible to edit web content and then refresh
the browser to see the changes.  The entire application must be re-built and
re-launched in order to try out changes (an obvious requirement for the Java
portion of the application, but not so obvious for the web content).

There are two build tasks to ease the development cycle:

- _run_ - This builds the application and then runs it.  This is the most
  common task to use.

- _build_ - This builds a new JAR file that can be run manually, or shared with
  someone else.

The process is therefore edit code, use the _run_ build task, test the code,
close the application window, repeat.

## UX design

There are three main "display" targets for the application, each of which
guides the design of the corresponding sections of the application.

- Desktop - This is where the main adminstration and configuration occurs.  The
  _Admin_ page, with all of its sub-pages, is intended for desktop use, and is
  therefore designed with that as a target (meaning that it is not necessarily
  mobile-friendly).  Given that the activities handled within the _Admin_ page
  are typically performed on the same computer that runs the application (and
  are much easier to accomplish with a physical keyboard), this is not seen as
  overly problematic.

- Mobile - This is where the majority of the work during the running of an
  event takes place.  The _Judge_ page, _Referee_ page, and _Time Keeper_ pages
  are all used by the corresponding volunteers during an event, and are
  therefore designed to work well on a modile device (following mobile-first
  design practices).  CSS media queries (<tt>@media</tt>) are used to adjust
  these pages to better utilize larger displays (such as a tablet instead of a
  phone, or desktop), but the design is done first for a phone in portrait mode
  (the most horizontally-space restrictive environment).

- Projector - There are two audience displays, allowing the attendees to see
  pertinent information about the event.  These are the _Scoreboard_ page and
  the _Timer_ page.  Additionally, there is the _Standings_ page for displaying
  the league standings, if that feature is utilized by an organizer (and would
  normally be displayed at the end of the event).  Similar to desktop, they are
  intended for projection onto a large screen (or wall), and are not
  necessarily mobile-friendly.

There are a common set of colors in the base CSS file (<tt>styles.css</tt>)
that are used throughout the remainder of the CSS to select colors.  The web
interface is primarily black and white, with a accent and error colors (defined
such in the CSS); utilizing the accent and error color names allows those
colors to be changed across the entire web interface with a one-line change in
the base CSS.

## Configuration conveniences

There are three configuration values that can be stored in the _config_ table
in the database to assist with development:

- _bypassSecurity_ - If this is set to _1_, all of the security in the web
  interface (logins and roles) are bypassed.  In this case, anyone can access
  anything; helpful when developing!  If this value is set to _0_ or is
  missing, the normal login controls are present.

- _dbDebug_ - If this is set to _1_, every SQL statement that is executed on
  the SQLite database is printed out to the terminal
  (<tt>System.out.println()</tt>).  This can be helpful when trying to get data
  into or out of the database, and making sure that the correct SQL is used.
  If this value is set to _0_ or is missing, no logging occurs.

- _httpDebug_ - If this is set to _1_, every HTTP request that is received is
  printed out to the terminal (<tt>System.out.println()</tt>).  This can be
  helpful when trying to validate web requests that are generated by the
  application's Javascript in the browser.  If this value is set to _0_ or is
  missing, no logging occurs.

  When run from within a development environment, there are check boxes on the
  main application allowing these to be easily toggled.